This lecture is going to be a lecture
that covers the basic Git and GitHub
commands that
you're going to be using for the files
that you're going to be creating in this
class.
So the first thing that we should do is
sort look at the structure
of where the different files are and what
the different commands are going to do.
So you can start off by looking here
at the work space where you're actually
working
on files on your computer, so that's like
the directories where you're working with
the files.
Then there's an index.
This tells Git what are the files
that it should be controlling under
version control.
And then there's the local repository;
these are the files
that are stored or version controlled on
your local computer.
Finally, there's the remote repository.
In our case, that will always be GitHub.
So, the idea here is that you're starting
off in your workspace and you create a
file.
And the first thing that you need to do is
you need to add that file to the
index so that Git knows to to monitor that
file and keep up with all of its changes.
And then what you need to do is you need
to commit that file so that, you need
to put a version of that file in your
local repository so that it can be stored
and updated.
So as you make changes, you keep
committing those changes to your local
repository.
Finally, sometime when you have made a few
Commits and
you want to update the remote repository,
then what you'll
be doing is you'll be issuing a Push
Command to
be able to put those changes into your
remote repository.
Okay, so the first thing that you're
going to need to do is suppose you're
working
in a directory that is a repo that is
being under version control by Git.
So the first thing that you're going to
want to maybe do is put new files
under version controls, so what you need
to do is add them to the index.
And so to let know, Git know that they
need to be tracked, you can use the add
command.
So this is Gitadd.,
adds all the new files in your current
working directory that you are working in,
so this is presuming that you are in the
directory where you are adding new files.
Git add -u will actually update what
happens to
the files that have changed names or were
deleted.
So gitadd.,
will just add all the new files, gitadd -u
deals with all
the changes to files either adding or
deleting or sort of name changing.
And then gitadd -A does both of the
previous things all in one command.
So before you try to commit things to your
local repository, you need to make
sure that you use the add command, so that
you can add things to the index.
Then once you've added them to the index,
you can commit them to your local repo.
And so the way that you do that is you can
use the git
commit command, so you do gitcommit, and
then a flag, -m, and a message here.
And so the message is hopefully a useful
description of
what are the changes that are happening in
this command.
So, if I've added some new files, that
message might say I've the following new
files.
Or it might tell you a little bit about
the things that
you've deleted or changed so that you can
change your local repo.
This is only going to make changes to the
local repo, it
won't make any changes to GitHub, this is
still a local action.
So if you would like to put things up on
GitHub, then what you can
do is, still in that same working
directory, you could type the command, git
push.
And so what that will do is take all the
changes that you've committed
up until then and it will push them to the
remote directory on Github.
Sometimes you might be working on a
project, particularly in this class where
there's
a version that might be used by many other
people, and you might not
want to edit the version that's being used
by everyone because if you make
a lot of changes to it, it might break all
the work that they're doing.
So one thing that you might do, first is
you might actually create a branch.
So a branch is just another version of the
same directory where you can make changes
sort of independently.
So what you can do is you can use git
checkout -b and then the
name of the branch that you want to do and
that will create a new branch.
The default branch for all the repos that
are created with Github is the master
branch, but you can create a repo with
any other names they develop for
development branch.
To see what branch you're on at any given
time.
If you go into the current working
directory where the repo is,
and you type git branch, it'll tell you
what branch you're on.
If you want to switch back to the master
branch, what you can do is,
you can type git checkout master, and
we'll
check you out back to the master branch.
And so you can look at that branch.
One thing that you can do is once you've
made a
pull request, or a push of your changes up
to your repo.
Suppose that you're working on a repo
where you're on a different
branch or you're working on a repo that
you forked from somebody else,
then what you might want to do is merge
your changes back into
the original repo or into the original
branch that you were working on.
To do this you need to issue a pull
request.
This is a unique fit, feature of Gitbhub.
It actually isn't a feature of Git.
And so what you do is you go to the Github
website
and you, if you go to the branch that
you're interested in.
So if you go and pick which branch that
you're working on then what you can
do is you can actually click on this
button over here which is compare and pull
request.
And what that will do is it will issue a
pull
request to the individual that owns that
other branch or repo.
So if it's yourself, you'll get a
notification that there's been a pull
request.
If it's somebody else, they'll get a
notification.
And then they can decide whether to merge
that pull request
into their repo or not if they think the
changes are appropriate.
So you can see all the changes that were
made and
confirm whether they were sort of
appropriate and interesting or not.
So I'm giving you the very, very basis of
the Github commands here, but there's a
whole lot more.
And you can often run into little tricks
and difficulties with Git and Github.
So the best place to start is actually a
Github help I found.
But the Git documentation is actually
quite thorough, it takes
a little bit more reading and a little bit
more doing.
Although my experience has been that the
best place to, to
deal with this is to type sort of what you
think
you want to do into Google or into Stack
Overflow and you
find out the answers much more quickly
that way in my experience.